Tensorboard Notebook + Tutorial (#1250)
mosaicml/composer: docs/source/loggers/tensorboard_logger.md

# Logging Your Results with Tensorboard

## Installing Tensorboard
Before we get started make sure you have installed Tensorboard!
Make sure to run:
```bash
pip install 'mosaicml[tensorboard]'
```

## Logging to Tensorboard Pythonically
To log your run's results to tensorboard, first you will need to create a `TensorboardLogger`
object, like so:

```python
from composer.loggers import TensorboardLogger

tb_logger = TensorboardLogger(log_dir="./my_tensorboard_logs")
```

`log_dir` is where you want the Tensorboard logs to be saved locally (on the system in which you run composer).

 If you are viewing or accessing you logs locally, choose this path wisely and remember it! Also make sure to use this same value for `log_dir` for any future runs (so all your runs can be visualized together!)
 

>  If you will be using S3 to save your logs then the exact path you choose is not as important.

Reviewer: Should link to the `ObjectStoreLogger` docs and mention that the path passed to there is what is used

Author: done

## Logging to Tensorboard using YAML configs
To log to Tensorboard using YAML config files, you can add these lines to you YAML file:
```yaml
  loggers:
    tensorboard:
      log_dir: my_tensorboard_logs    
```
Putting it all together the MNIST config YAML file version of the code above should look like:

```yaml
train_dataset:
  mnist:
    is_train: true
    datadir: ./datasets/mnist
    download: true
val_dataset:
  mnist:
    is_train: false
    datadir: ./datasets/mnist
    download: true
model:
  mnist_classifier:
    num_classes: 10
max_duration: 5ep
eval_interval: 1ep
train_batch_size: 128
eval_batch_size: 64
loggers:
  tensorboard:
    log_dir: my_tensorboard_logs    
```
Then save that YAML file as `mnist.yaml` for example.

To run the training using this config file, just run:

```bash
python examples/run_composer_trainer.py -f mnist.yaml
```

If all goes well, your loss and metric results will be logged Tensorboard log files, which will be written to "./my_tensorboard_logs". 
See [these instructions](#viewing-your-results-locally) for viewing your results in the Tensorboard viewer.

## Saving your Logs to S3

> If you run your training on a cluster without persistent local storage or you don't have ssh
> access to your cluster, you may not be able to access your Tensorboard logs after the training
> run is over. To solve this issue you can have your Tensorboard logs saved to some cloud storage
> somewhere, like Amazon S3. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also save your Tensorboard logs to cloud storage such as Amazon S3. This is especially useful in cases where your run environment does not have persistent storage.
```

<!-- I can't figure out how to use the ObjectStoreLogger pythonically, so punting on this -->
<!-- To save your logs to S3, you will need create an  `ObjectStoreLogger` object, like so:

```python
from composer.loggers import ObjectStoreLogger
from composer.utils import
``` -->

> If you are using YAML configs you can get S3 logging by adding the following lines to your YAML file under loggers:

Reviewer: Should probably link to the `ObjectStoreLogger` docs

Author: done

    is_train: true
    datadir: ./datasets/mnist
    download: true
val_dataset:
  mnist:
    is_train: false
    datadir: ./datasets/mnist
    download: true
model:
  mnist_classifier:
    num_classes: 10
max_duration: 5ep
eval_interval: 1ep
train_batch_size: 128
eval_batch_size: 64
loggers:
  tensorboard:
    log_dir: my_tensorboard_logs
  object_store:
    object_store_hparams:
      s3:
        bucket: my-s3-bucket-name
```

Once again you can run this job like so:

```bash
python examples/run_composer_trainer.py -f mnist.yaml
```

If all goes well: your loss and metric results will be logged Tensorboard log files, which will be written to `s3://my-s3-bucket-name/tensorboard_logs`
The tensorboard logger will always name the directory inside your bucket "`tensorboard_logs`".

See [these instructions](#viewing-your-results-from-s3) for viewing your results in the Tensorboard viewer.

## Viewing your Results Locally
If you saved your Tensorboard log files locally you can view them by starting a Tensorboard process and pointing it to the log directory you specified. To do this run the following at the command line:

```bash
tensorboard --logdir='./my_tensorboard_logs'
```

> This will start a a Tensorboard process, which will write a message to stdout that looks something like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will start a Tensorboard process, which will write a message to stdout that looks something like:
```

```bash
TensorBoard 2.9.1 at http://localhost:6006/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

Open the URL in your browser to access the Tensorboard viewer, which should look something like this:
![tb_screenshot](./tensorboard_screenshot.png)

Enjoy viewing your metrics!

## Viewing your Results from S3
To view your logs that are saved to S3, you first need to copy them from S3 to your local system. You can do so by using the AWS cli, which you can download [here](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/). Once you have that installed, you can run the following commands:

```bash
mkdir my_tensorboard_logs

> aws s3 cp s3://my-s3-bucket-name/tensorboard_logs ./my_tensorboard_logs --recursive

Reviewer: If you have the AWS CLI installed and are logged in with `aws sso login` then you don't need to copy the files locally. You should be able to pass the S3 path directly to the tensorboard command like:

```
 tensorboard --logdir=s3://mosaicml-internal-checkpoints-bert/tensorboard_logs/bert-tutorial-71gw/
```
and it will work.

Author: oh nice! I need to test that myself! done
